So moving on to the next
part of this course,
which is all about synthesising audio.
And actually making audio just from code,
without using any mp3 files, or WAV files,
or any sort of source files,
even like a microphone or anything.
We're just gonna use code and math to
try and produce some audio effects.
There's a couple demos I just
want to show that are on the web.
Some really kind of fun and
quirky demos and projects.
So a similar kind of technique
to this blog opera site
that I was showing earlier,
is pink trombone.
It's a very funny little
kind of web toy [SOUND] [SOUND].
And you can just kind of play
around with the synthesis.
[SOUND] Pretty fun stuff.
On another note is generative FM.
So this is using sound synthesis
Web Audio, but to try and
create this kind of generative and
calming and relaxing background music.
Each of these is done with code and
done with sort of algorithmic processes.
And so they're always very different.
But they all have that kind of similar
type of calming and relaxing sound.
This one's a little bit less
relaxing than usual but
some of them have been very nice.
And this will be using Web Audio to
actually synthesize this in real time.
So a very basic example of synthesizing
is just using a sine wave.
We're just gonna start with this, just
because it's like the most simple one and
we kind of been looking at very similar
graphs through the whole course.
We've been talking about this graph
of The wave that's going up and
down at a constant rate and
that's basically just a sine wave here.
A sine wave is the function
this sine function you pass in
a value which is the angle theta or
theta, and it's in radians.
And what you get is some value
between positive one and negative one.
And as you can see on the left,
it's creating that graph that we now know
of as a wave form and on the right,
what it's doing here is it just taking
a point around the circle and determining
what the value of that should be.
To create this waveform, and so
from that sine wave we can create sound.
So a simple example here is
inside of one of the demos
which I'll show the page with
all the demos in second.
[SOUND] This tone dash example dash
synth dash basic glitch.me.
When you click and hold,
It produces a constant sine wave sound,
a tone, and that is just
produced at a single frequency.
But when you change the most
along the left and right axis,
it will change the frequency of
the tone that's being produced.
[SOUND] [SOUND] And
you can actually see in the background
a sort of visualization of
how that graph might look
this is not a perfectly accurate graph so
I've fudged the numbers a little bit so
that you can get a sense.
This is a low frequency sound and
it has a low frequency waveform,
higher frequency sounds have
those higher frequency waveforms.
So if you go into the workshop,
and we can go here.
And this is the second sort of
page of demos, tone dash demos.
And you can go in here and
see them all So,
there's just like before,
there's a bunch of different demos.
This is using what's called tone J S,
which I'll get into in just a second.
But you can see already that there's
this one I was showing [SOUND].
And then a few others like
this tapping sound [SOUND] And
what it's doing is it's choosing
a random note [SOUND] every
time you tap to create a bit of
a sorta fun little app here.
[MUSIC]
This is very similar and a little bit
inspired by pat atone or pat of tap.
So I'm calling it pat atone.
Tone because it's using tone.
And every time you click it
chooses a different color.
And it also plays a random note and
it's using some effects
like a sort of delay to create
that kind of nice spatial sound.
[MUSIC]
As an example of using Effects,
turning them up turning them down.
This one is more like a sequencer.
So like creating algorithmic music.
[MUSIC]
And the way that works is that it's
just playing notes with a random sort of
sequence of notes and then every time
it finishes Sort of bar of notes,
it will just choose a different
sequence of random notes.
And then there's a few other demos.
Some of them are repeats of what
we've done already with web audio.
So I'm not gonna really go into how to
play an mp3 file with this Tone.js library
because we've already
done it with web audio.
And this is more if you're
starting to use Tone.js and
you might wanna start to
use their mp3 features.
And even things like metering or waveform
FFT that's also possible with tone JS.
I liked to show the pure web audio
version of these kinds of ideas because.
Quite often you don't really need to pull
in an entire audio library just to do some
simple visualizations.
But if you are using this library tone
JS already or if you're using a library
like it, then it's good to know just how
to use it in these different ways just
in case you do wanna use some frequency
spectrum analysis type of things.